---
layout: post
title:  "React 16 Docs Notes"
excerpt: "About JSON Web Tokens"
date:   2018-06-13 09:12
categories: notes
tags:
    - javascript
    - react
---

## General Recommendations

* Prefer composition over inheritance, e.g. create basic components, then wrap them in a more specific one.  For example create a Dialog component, and then put that in a WarningDialog component.
* We strongly recommend against creating your own base component classes. favor composition over inheritance
* all DOM properties and attributes (including event handlers) should be camelCased with the exception of exception is `aria-*` and `data-*`
* dangerouslySetInnerHTML is React's replacement for using innerHTML in the browser DOM.
* File structure suggestion: https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-structure.html

## Components
* Return a loading HTML JSX for async props
* You can create a `.env` file declaring a constant of `NODE_PATH` pointing to where your `src` folder is, so that your import statements are absolute, e.g. `import components/App.js` instead of `import ./components/App.js`
* Components must start with a capital letter
* Variables with values starting in lower case letters are treated as DOM elements
* Components declared as functions do not have states
* Components declared to inherit from React.Component have state
* Only use `this.state.key=''` in the constructor, else use `this.setState()`
* Component `props` and `state` flow down
* events are `camelCased`
* `event.preventDefault` must be called explicitly
* JSX expressions are wrapped in curly braces
* Return `null` in your component if you don't want it to be rendered.
* When printing collections in JSX, use your object's id first, and the array index as last resort
* input form element values controlled by React are called controlled components
* Each JSX element is just syntactic sugar for calling `React.createElement(component, props, ...children)`
* Avoid using `refs` for anything that can be done declaratively.
* Use controlled components in most cases to implement forms. A form element becomes "controlled" if you set its value via a prop


## State and Props
* Function components do not have state, only class components do
* States are initialized in the constructor.  It is set like so `this.state = {key: VALUE}`.  Outside of the constructor, state is set using `this.setState({key: VALUE})`.
* Controlled components are components where the value is set from the state `<input value="this.state.key" onChange="this.onValueChange" />`
* Sharing state between siblings require the state to be lifted up to the parent
* If you pass no value for a prop, it defaults to `true`.
* a render prop is a function prop that a component uses to know what to render. `<Mouse attr={(mouse) => ( <Cat mouse={mouse} /> )} />`
* If you don't initialize state and you don't bind methods, you don't need to implement a constructor for your React component.
* You should not call setState() in the constructor(), use `componentDidMount()` instead
* Think of setState() as a request rather than an immediate command to update the component.
* Calls to setState are asynchronous - don't rely on this.state to reflect the new value immediately after calling setState. 
* Pass an updater function instead of an object if you need to compute values based on the current state e.g. `this.setState((prevState) => { ... });`


## Events and Lifecyle
* Event handlers will be passed instances of **SyntheticEvent**, a cross-browser wrapper around the browser’s native event
* Event callbacks that aren't in a function format and depends on the component, needs to call `.bind(this)`
* Populate data with AJAX calls in the `componentDidMount`. This is so you can use setState to update your component when the data is retrieved.
* Lifecycle http://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/
* `componentWillUpdate` and `componentWillReceiveProps` are deprecated
* use `componentDidCatch` to capture errors during rendering
* `componentDidMount` is a good place to set up subscriptions, then unsubscribe from `componentWillUnmount`


## Routing (react-router)
* React Router comes bundled with `history` package. 
* `browserHistory` uses `pushState`, `hashHistory` uses hashes for the url

