---
layout: post
title:  "CSS in 2019"
excerpt: "CSS3 Features"
date:   2019-01-30 06:12
categories: notes
tags:
  - css
  - design
---

## CSS Variables
* Use`--variable-name: 10px` syntax to define a CSS variable.  To apply it, use the `var(--variable-name)` to an element. 
* If you need to have a fallback value when using a variable, follow the `var(--variable-name, 15px)` syntax
* Variables follow the same inheritance rules in CSS - a variable is available to use from the selector it was declared and all its descendants. 
* Global variables are declared using the `:root` pseudo selector

## Grids
* CSS grid items are `content-box` by default
* Fractional unit `fr` is similar to percentages but in decimal form
* Use `repeat(NUMBER_OF_TIMES, 100px, 200px)` to save you from retyping your columns or rows
* Use `grid-template-columns: span NUM_OF_MERGE` to create a `colspan` or `rowspan` merge.  Also applicable to `grid-template-rows`.
* Use `grid-template-areas` to name your columns.  This name can then be used with `grid-template-column:[COLUMN_NAME] 100px` or `grid-template-row:[COLUMN_NAME] 100px` to quickly define your measurements.


## 2D and 3D Transformations Functions
* `translate(30px, 10px)` to position elements in the x and y axes from its parent element area in a 2D plane
* `rotate(90deg)` for rotating an element in a 2D plane
* `transform-origin: 50% 50% | center`  uses the element's midpoint for rotation in a 2D plane
* `rotateX(45deg)`  rotates an element from the x-axis in a 3D plane - the element is upside down like a reflection when the angle of rotation is `180deg`
* `rotateY(45deg)` rotates an element from the y-axis in a 3D plane - the effect of a `180deg` rotation makes the element appear like you are looking at it from behind
* `rotateZ(90deg)` is the same as `rotate(90deg)`
* `scale(.5,.5)` is a short hand for `scaleX(.5)` and `scaleY(.5)`. It resizes the specified element on a 2D plane. A value lower than `1` makes the element smaller.  A negative value gives it a rotation effect.


## Misc
* These default font sizes are all the same `font-size: 100% | 16px | 12pt | 1em | medium`
* Superimpose background images by specifying multiple images when using background, e.g. `background: url(image1.jpg, image2,jpg)`
* Use `object-fit` to specify scaling rules on image or video tags in relation to its container element